---
title: Heat pads
summary: 8 ways I use heat pads to relieve Fibromyalgia pain
tags:
  - Pain
---
# 8 ways I use heat pads to relieve Fibromyalgia pain

We have just had the hottest Summer I can remember, but that hasn’t stopped me from using a variety of heat pads. Why? Because heat is so effective at relieving my pain. I find that the sensation of pain is over-ridden by the sensation of heat, giving me much needed relief. It isn’t perfect – I’m not magically pain-free – but it really helps.

## Electric heat pads

### Electric heat pad

This is my usual go-to. It lives on my sofa and is switched on every time I sit down. The only trouble is
one of my dogs has decided it’s rather nice to lie on, too, so I have to fight her for it.

### Electric blanket

Yup. Even in the Summer, I switch this bad-boy on for about 20mins before I fall asleep. It helps relax
my muscles, meaning I am more comfortable and therefore find it easier to fall asleep.

### Heated car seat

My car isn’t posh enough to have one built in, so I bought one that plugs into the cigarette lighter. It is a
godsend and means I am able to drive much further as my pain levels are lower.

### Rechargeable electric heat pad

Some places I go want electrical items to be PAT tested (tested for safety compliance by a qualified electrician)
before they let you plug them in, so I bought this pad as it doesn’t need to be plugged in.
However, it doesn’t get super hot and doesn’t last all that long, so it is not one of my favourites.

## Other heat pads

### Hot water bottle

If I get stuck when visiting a friend, I’ll often ask to borrow a hot water bottle as most people have them. I
find them helpful but not terribly practical. They are heavy due to the water content and bulky so not great
to lean against. I also worry about them leaking; that happened a few times when I was a child. Not the
best but useful in a bind.

### Re-usable heat packs

I found some heat packs that have a clickable disc inside to activate. They can be regenerated by putting
them in hot water, and once cooled, they can be re-clicked and re-used. The trouble with these, I find, is
that you have to hold them in place. I am thinking of making a top with several pouches in so I can pop
them in the appropriate place and be hands-free, but I haven’t got around to it yet.

### Stick on heat patches

I don’t use these very often now as I have so many electric heat pads which I use instead; using these
often can get expensive. However, these are helpful if I know I am out and about where I don’t have
access to the other ones.

### Wheat bags

I like these, but my husband doesn’t as there is a slight smell which he’s not keen on, so I don’t use these
often. You put them in the microwave for a minute or so to warm them up. Because these are sort of
mouldable, I find they are good for awkwardly shaped areas like wrapping around your neck where a flat
heat pad wouldn’t quite sit right.
